The Project Gutenberg eBook of A land-girl's love story
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: A land-girl's love story

Author: Berta Ruck

Illustrator: Edward C. Caswell

Release date: October 27, 2024 [eBook #74644]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: Dodd, Mead and Company

Credits: Al Haines


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A LAND-GIRL'S LOVE STORY ***







[Frontispiece: _England must be fed (page 17)_]




  A LAND-GIRL'S
  LOVE STORY


  BY

  BERTA RUCK

  Author of "His Official Fiancée," "In Another
  Girl's Shoes," "The Three of Hearts," etc.


  _With Illustrations by
  EDWARD C. CASWELL_



  NEW YORK
  DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
  1919




  COPYRIGHT, 1919
  BY MRS. GEORGE OLIVER




  TO
  ALL THE GIRLS I MET
  IN FARM, FIELD AND FOREST
  WISHING THEM THE BEST OF LUCK,
  AND LIFE, AND LOVE
  FROM BERTA RUCK

_Wales, 1918_




  CONTENTS


  CHAPTER

  I  "Man Made the Town"
  II  Two Voices Call
  III  The Toss-Up
  IV  The First Night in Camp
  V  The First Job
  VI  The Farmhouse Meal
  VII  After-Effects
  VIII  The Plunge
  IX  Our Mess-Mates
  X  The Milking-Lesson
  XI  The Land-Girls' Letter-Bag
  XII  We "Get Used to It"
  XIII  An Invitation
  XIV  The Hen-Wife
  XV  Mostly Conversation
  XVI  Curious Conduct of the Man-Hater
  XVII  Land-Girls go Shopping
  XVIII  The Night of the Concert
  XIX  The Surprise Turn
  XX  Land Army Tests
  XXI  The Man-Hater Discusses Men
  XXII  Hay-Harvest
  XXIII Colonel Fielding Discusses "Enjoyment"
  XXIV Storm
  XXV After the Rain
  XXVI Colonel Fielding Discusses "Love and the Like"
  XXVII A Kitchen Courtship
  XXVIII The Onlooker
  XXIX Love--After the Interval
  XXX Colonel Fielding Discusses "The Mystery-Girl"
  XXXI A Few Facts about Richard Wynn
  XXXII Butter-Making--With Accompaniment
  XXXIII "Our" Germans
  XXXIV Harvest, Nineteen-Eighteen
  XXXV "Fire, Fire!"
  XXXVI The Harvest-Moon
  Postscript--The Victory-Dance




ILLUSTRATIONS


England must be fed . . . _Frontispiece_

"I was going to ask you to join up for the Land Army"

We agreed that we were simply loving the life and the people, the
work and the play

Still leaning on the gate, Captain Holiday said: "I'm glad the
country won that toss"




A LAND-GIRL'S LOVE STORY




A LAND-GIRL'S LOVE STORY



CHAPTER I

"MAN MADE THE TOWN"

      "What's this dull town to me?
        Robin's not near.
      What was't I wished to see?
        What wished to hear?
  Where's all the joy and mirth made this town a Heav'n on earth?
  Oh, they are all fled with thee, Robin Adair!"
                                                --SCOTS SONG.


"There!  I told you what kind of a young man he was, Joan."

I only groaned; my elbows on the breakfast-table and my head buried
in my hands.  What does it matter what "kind" of young man he is,
when you're in love with him?

"He's a beauty," declared my chum Elizabeth.  She pushed back the
letter which had come as such a knockout to me.  "Who's this 'Muriel'
who writes to tell you that she's just seen Harry Markham off to
Salonika, when you didn't even know he'd got his orders?"

"It's Muriel Elvey; I introduced him to her myself at the theatre
about a fortnight ago," I explained, stunned.  "That very pretty girl
who was at school in Germany with me.  I didn't know they'd met
again....  He didn't say good-bye to me! ..."

"Rotter," snorted Elizabeth boyishly.

But some of us would rather be happy with a charming "rotter" than be
bored for life by one of those prigs who never do anything wrong.

Haggardly I stared at that letter with its gold-printed "Muriel" at
the top, its whiff of Chaminade.  Little Elizabeth scowled
sympathetically.  She always had had a grimace for the name of
Captain Harry Markham, who had been my idol for the last year.

(A rotter!  What difference does that make!)

For that year life was a whirl of thrills and pangs because of one
young soldier-man's black eyes and red tabs.  At first it was all
thrill.  That's bound to be when the Harry-type--a born fighter and
philanderer--leader of men and misleader of women--fills up a girl's
horizon with his telephone-calls, his invitations, his
flatteries--and himself.

Feverishly happy, I blessed the job that kept me where he was.

(And now this!  This!)

My job was one of those that are described as "thundering good for a
girl."  It brought me in nearly three pounds a week, for I was
secretary to a quite important official in one of those big
rabbit-warren buildings in Whitehall that we call Ministries.  It
kept me indoors from ten A.M. until half-past six or seven or--if
we'd a rush of work--eight o'clock at night.

It kept nerve and brain on the stretch, too!  My chief insisted upon
taking the last ounce out of his under-strappers.  Also, he had a
horrible temper.  But I accepted that as cheerfully as I accepted the
stuffiness of that rabbit-warren, and the rushed lunches, and the
work that was draining all the go-stuff out of me.

You see, my people lived in the country, and--because of Harry--I
simply had to live in town.  It would have killed me, I thought, to
tear myself away from London and from our flat near Golder's Green.
This had been let, furnished, by an officer, now at the front, to me
and my old school-chum, Elizabeth Weare, who was clerk at my
rabbit-warren.  We did our own housework and marketing and cooking,
tired as we were, after our office-day was done.  Sounds rather like
all work and no play?  But it wasn't.

There was play, to take it out of me more than work.  Play turned my
days into a succession of wild jumps across stepping-stones.  The
stones, of course, were the times when Harry took me out.  I would
have worked underground and consented never to see the light of day,
provided that I still saw him.  Ah, I'm not the first girl who has
made Paradise out of bricks and mortar, just because they hold a
Harry!

I thought I was growing to mean to him as much as he meant to me.
Elizabeth did warn me, but who ever takes any notice of these
warnings from the looker-on who sees the game?  And Elizabeth was by
way of being a Man-Hater anyhow, so how put any trust in her opinion
of my Prince Charming?

Gradually there slipped through the thrill of it all the first pang
of doubt.  Surely he meant to propose?  No?  Yes?  No?

The pangs came oftener.  Could he mean nothing?  Just the flirtation
that camouflages itself under the name of being great pals?  Or would
he presently say something?  This was a wearing time, I can tell you.
Presently the thrills grew fewer, the pangs more frequent.  This is
also bound to be when the Harry-type cools off again.  Was he
cooling?  Wasn't he?  A see-saw of agony!

Slowly zest and colour began to fade out of the life that saw less
and less of the young staff officer whose fancy I had amused for some
months.

Hope dies hard.

Then a whole fortnight--this last one--went by without a sign from
him.  I hoped on, wildly, that something would happen, and, finally,
this very morning, something had happened with a vengeance!  It had
killed hope with a sledge-hammer.

Devastating news came from that girl to whom I'd introduced him
myself!  I might have known that Harry the Susceptible would fall to
Muriel's lovely little Lily-Elsie-like face!  At that German school
they had all raved about it, I remember; walking down Unter den
Linden, Muriel had always been put between the two severest
governesses, and even so the tightly-uniformed Prussian officers had
followed and had jostled us in passing to try to steal one glance
from "_die bild-hübsche Engländerin's_" demure big eyes.

So those eyes had been the last into which Harry had smiled before he
left Blighty again!  I had never had another look; I who adored him,
who had been given to suppose that he returned it.

Harry had gone.  Gone!  Without a good-bye.  Well--it was all
over--finished--na poo!

I was left to make what I could of the situation.

What could I do?

Apparently nothing but gulp down my sugarless tea, push aside the
stale war-bread with its one scrape of margarine that represented my
breakfast, and set off for my day's work, leaving Elizabeth to wash
up.  She had a day off from the rabbit-warren.  I wished I had; I
scarcely felt like coping with the office.

"Poor old kid!  Such is men," grunted Elizabeth.  "You look
absolutely played out."

"Do I?  I needn't ever bother again about how I look.  That's one
comfort," I sighed, as I crammed on my hat.

This had an impertinent little wreath of coloured buds, and was lined
with rose, because Harry said pink next to my face always suited me.
I'd bought it to wear up the river with him.

Oh, the pathos of these hats, these pretty frocks that have been
specially bought for "some" man!  Long after that man has ceased to
care a button what one wears the hat is still fresh, the frock seems
to go on and on.  Things remain.  It's the people who change.  I must
have changed, too, after a blow in the face like that!  What had it
done to me?  I gave one deliberate and searching glance at myself in
the sitting-room looking-glass.

It showed me a plain and weary girl, with ten years added to her
actual age.  A slim, stooping figure that moved without zest.  Eyes
without brightness.  Hair ditto--where were "the goldy lights" that
Harry once praised in my hair?  It was as drab and dull as the whole
of my outlook had grown in the last half-hour.

I'd had what is called a ripping time, you see.  Here was the bill I
had to pay--low, secret misery, dark heaviness of heart, looks and
girlishness lost--as I thought--for ever!

I stuffed into my bag the fateful letter that had knocked the bottom
out of my world for me.

"You're forgetting these," Elizabeth reminded me, handing me a couple
of other envelopes that lay unopened by my plate.  I hadn't even
noticed them.

"Haven't time," I said, pocketing them as I dashed down the four
flights of brass-bound steps from our flat to the entrance.

There was no sign that either of those unopened letters held anything
out of the ordinary.  In my own mind I had no presentiment of wonder
to come.  I thought I knew my fate, thanks.

Let this be a lesson to any young woman who thinks the like.  For
when she is quite, quite sure that "all is over" for her, that is the
moment when "All" is preparing to begin.

* * * * * * *

Here I've given you my picture as I was all those weeks ago.  Now
skip those weeks and see the contrast; the picture of me as I am
today.  A straight and supple body, all conscious of the Jest of
living.  Limbs rounded and firm.  Face joyous, glowing, and
clean-skinned under the tan.  Hair glossy and full of gleams; eyes
bright as the morning, with the atmosphere of sunshine and clean airs
all round me.  A new self, in fact, made by a new life.  Thousands of
girls all over the country at this moment can show the same miracle.

I am going to tell you the story of how it happened to me.

* * * * * * *

I had to rush for my Tube train, only in time to be held up by that
exasperating wooden barrier, while the corncrake voice of the
official rasped out: "Stand back, there!"  And the train did not move
out for another good half-minute.

Fuming, I waited on the platform, squashed against that barrier by
the crowd who pressed behind me--a crowd who looked nervy and
strained, and who--to put it mildly--smelt.  Well, any business girl
who glances at her light blouse after a day's work in town will know
what I mean.  I myself must have looked about as cheery as that face
one sometimes catches sight of at the small square window of a black
prison-van.

The only air and exercise I ever got in those days were in the three
hundred yards' walk from our Mansions to the Tube, and in the two
minutes' scurry at the other end from the Tube station to the
rabbit-warren.

I hung on to a strap all the way to Charing Cross, hating everything.
That letter seemed to have laid open all my nerves; they were jarred
by the jostling passengers, by the conductor's raucous shouts, by the
very advertisements of patent medicines and boot polish on the Tube
walls, by the steps, the lift, in fact, everything to do with the
loathsome journey.

At the office I got a black look from my chief, Mr. Winter, and a
stinging comment on my lateness.  I'd had them before, but then I'd
scarcely noticed them.  Now the daily round seemed unbearable.

When I had Harry to look forward to in the evening, it scarcely
mattered how my day was spent.  But now--ye gods!  I suddenly found
everything rankling--the look of the rabbit-warren's dingy corridors
and annexes, the click of the typewriters, the whir of the telephone
bells, and the Cockney accents of some of the workers!

And worst of all was the inevitable office smell, made up of so many
horrors.  I put them in their order of unpleasantness:--

The hot iron of the water pipes.

Ink.

Dust.

Common yellow soap.

The sink.

Stale office towels.

Cigars.

All this sounds an unmitigated grouse!  But I have to get it over,
showing you the perfectly revolting time I had.  Sunlight and sweet
air have since streamed into my days.  But how can I forget the
stuffiness of Mr. Winter's room?

"Can't we keep that window shut?" was my chief's motto.

The one extremely grimy window gave on to Whitehall, and to open even
a crack of it let in all the noise of the traffic.

"Can't we have that window kept SHUT?"

The last word rang out like the crack of a whip almost before I got
in, on this particular morning.

I shut the window and got to work, suddenly wondering, "Shall I go on
like this until I'm eighty?"  My job for that beastly morning was to
check long columns of figures on blue paper, with a form-number at
the top, from duplicate lists.

Thrilling!

My eyes swam and my head throbbed as I muttered to myself over the
table: "Nine thousand three hundred and sixty-five pounds nineteen
shillings and a penny.  Nine thousand three hundred and sixty-five
pounds nineteen and a penny.  (Tick off.)  Two thousand four hundred
and ten pounds eleven shillings," and so on.  The lists almost
invariably tallied, but one dared not risk an error.  "Nine thousand
three hundred and----!"

What a life!  I saw it now as it was.  That letter had opened my
eyes.  Oh, to get away from it all!

At lunch-time I went out, avoiding the chattering throng of girls.
It was one of those sultry early-Spring days that seem hotter than
July.  All the luncheon-places were as full up as the Tube had been.
I could not wait for a seat in that atmosphere of not-too-cheap but
nasty food.

Eggs that were "fresh in places," badly poached, on toast limp with
water, and never a suspicion of butter--fish that had said good-bye
to the sea many days ago; or burnt pieces of bacon swimming in thin
fat--all these presented unpalatable realities which I felt
absolutely unable to face that day of days.

Sickened, I turned back into the glare of Trafalgar Square.  I sat
down listlessly in the only patch of shade that I could find, on the
steps of the National Gallery.  I looked across the bone-dry
fountains where wounded soldiers were swinging their bluer-trousered
legs.  I gazed gloomily past the Nelson Column, down Whitehall, with
its 'buses and people.

Ants on a human ant-heap, struggling for life--but was it worth
living?  Deep in my heart the thought persisted, "I must get out of
this.  I can't stand it.  How can I get away?"

Half-consciously my hand went to my bag to feel for the letter that
had blackened existence.  I hadn't looked at it again since Elizabeth
had indignantly pushed it back to me.  My fingers met the two other
letters, not yet opened.

"May as well see what they are," I thought, drearily.

One was a rather terrifying bill for shoes.  Well, it would be the
last of its kind--it's love that comes so ruinously expensive in nice
shoes and stockings!

The other was in a clear, strong hand-writing that I didn't know, and
it had been forwarded on from my home.

I opened it.

Picture me, a speck of navy-blue and white on the grey steps.  London
glaring and blaring beyond me, and in my hand the scrap of paper--the
second letter that was to fall upon me like a thunderbolt.  First,
Muriel's about Harry.  Now this.  I'd been actually carrying it about
with me all the morning unopened, cheek-by-jowl with that other
letter!

Listen to it!

Except that it was dated from some barracks, I didn't notice the
address.  My eye had at once caught the first sentence:


"My dear Joan,--They say a woman never forgets the first man who has
kissed her----"


Wouldn't those words give any girl a jolt?  They, startled me, even
in my stricken state.  "The first man who'd ever kissed me"--but the
first and only man had been Harry himself!  What on earth was the
meaning of this, in a stranger's handwriting?  It went on:


"That is why I have the cheek to write to you.  Now you'll turn to
the end of this letter to see who I am."


Exactly what I found myself doing, breathlessly!




CHAPTER II

TWO VOICES CALL

  "Do you remember that day in November
    Long, long ago; long ago?"
                              --OLD SONG.

      "Who'll grow the bread of Victory?
        Who'll keep the country clean?
      Who'll reap Old England golden?
        Who'll sow her thick and green?
  Carry on, carry on! for the men and boys are gone,
  But the furrow shan't lie fallow while the women carry on."
                                                --JANET BEGBIE.


The signature of the letter was--

  "Yours,
    "RICHARD WYNN."


Now, who in the world might he be?  Richard Wynn?  Wynn?

Ah!  Suddenly I realized why the surname at least was familiar.  Mr.
Wynn!  Of course!  I placed him, now.  I did remember.  Sitting
there, wan, on this the most miserable morning of my life, my
thoughts were switched back just seven years.

Seven mortal years ago!  A gap between a disillusioned young woman of
twenty-two and a gawky eager child of fifteen, as I then was.

That had been in the days when we lived on the borders of Wales.  My
father had farmed, in a scrambling sort of way, the small estate that
he owned there, and as he had to make ends meet somehow, he had taken
in a trio of hobbledehoys as farm pupils--what they'd learnt from
dear old Dad's antiquated methods goodness only knows.

Mr. Wynn was the eldest of these pupils.  I don't think I'd ever
taken as much interest in him as I had in the fox terrier puppy that
he gave me just before he sailed for the ranch of an uncle in Canada.
But I had hated his going away.  I always did hate partings, even
from the succession of mountain-bred cooks who stayed their six
months with us.  On that gloomy autumn morning, with the mountains
blotted out by mist and the rain coming down in a steady
drip-drip-drip on the slate roof, when we had all gathered in the
veranda to say good-bye to the departing pupil I had suddenly felt
like bursting into tears.

Mr. Wynn, the leggy, dark-haired Welsh lad of nineteen, had turned
with his brand-new suit-case all ready labelled in his hand, had seen
my blank look, had stared down upon me and had clutched me by the
pig-tail as I turned to flee.

"Nice kid, ripping kid," he'd muttered in a brusque, touched young
voice.  "Give us a kiss for good-bye, Joan."

And he'd drawn my head back by its plait and kissed me under the eyes
of my amused family.  They had ragged me about it for months.  How
should I, at that age, have guessed the difference between that and a
real kiss?  Years later Harry had slipped the real kisses into my
life, in the course of conversation, so to speak, and by
imperceptible degrees, which was Harry's insidious way of making
love--none the less fatal!

Now, on the very day when love had left me in a way so very far from
being imperceptible, here was this reminder from that other,
forgotten young man, that went on:


"Plenty of things have happened since we said good-bye; but I've
often wondered what became of the pretty kid with the thick brown
pigtail.  You'd a blue bow on it that day, and you never noticed that
I walked off with that.  I suppose there's just an off-chance that
you are not married yet.  Are you?  If you aren't, would you care to
marry me?"


I gasped as I came to this.  Who wouldn't have been petrified?

"Would you care to marry me?"

But how--how fantastic!  At breakfast-time upon this very day I'd had
conveyed to me the devastating news that the one young man on whom my
thoughts had hung wished to see no more of me.  Now, at midday, here
was shock No. 2.  Another young man, of whom I hadn't thought since I
was grown up, was actually proposing to me.

Both on one day!

Was I living in some wild dream of coincidences?  But no.  The
Harry-wound went on aching steadily beyond this flash in the pan even
as I read on.


"It sounds mad, I know."


The writer actually admitted it.


"I'd explain details and things better if I saw you.  May I come and
see you?  If so, please write to me here, where I shall be for the
next ten days.  I could get over to your father's place.  This
needn't commit you to anything.  But if it is all off, don't write.
If I don't hear from you within a week I shall know it was good-bye
for good.--Yours, RICHARD WYNN."


Stupefied, I sat staring at his letter.

Now a proposal of marriage from almost any young man in this world
would bring its special thrill to almost any girl.  This, quite apart
from whether she accepts it or refuses.  Isn't that true, girls?

So it shows what a stupor of despair I was in that morning, when I
tell you that only for a fleeting moment did I forget my troubles in
the excitement of this Mr. Wynn's letter.

I sighed as I got up, feeling a little dizzy from my perch on the
National Gallery steps, for St. Martin's Church clock showed
half-past one, and it was time I started walking slowly back to that
revolting office.  I'd had no lunch, but lunch-time would be
considered over by the time I had crawled down Whitehall again.
Heavens!  How I hated Whitehall, and wished that I never need set
eyes upon ...

Here the quite wild idea sprang into my mind.

"What about this way out of it?  What if this were what I was longing
for, the chance of a completely new life?  Something to whisk me
right away out of everything that I knew in the days of Harry!
Here's this Mr. Richard Wynn--who was quite a nice young man, if I
could only remember his face a little bit more distinctly--asking to
marry me.  What if I said 'Yes'?  Since I was not to marry Harry,
what did it matter what sort of a man I did marry?  But what was he
like?"

Frowning, I tried to remember.  Dark, tall, Norfolk jacket, loved
dogs--that was as far as I got.  Not a detail of his face could I
recall!  An unawakened girl-child, as I was seven years ago, takes
scant notice of masculine faces.  All she thinks of them is "How ugly
they are; how very unlike the people in books that the beautiful
ladies are always falling in love with"--and that's the summing-up of
it for her, until she is seventeen or so.  (Unless she's of the type
of my little chum Elizabeth, who at twenty-one continued to hold this
view.)

But what about this Richard Wynn, who at nineteen had seemed a
century older than I?

Nowadays, I should not consider as a grown-up man that youth who'd
devoured such platefuls of cold mutton and bread and cheese at my
father's table.  I wondered listlessly how he'd grown up.  Quite
cold-bloodedly--for remember what I was going through--I began to
debate whether I'd say I would see him.  It might be better than the
office; better than living exactly the same life day after day,
without Harry.  And Harry would hear if I got engaged.

How many engagements, I wonder, are entered into in the mood in which
I was at that darkest of moments?

I thought, "If I write----"

Then my thoughts were broken into by something very different.

I'd already noticed, while only half-seeing it, that a little crowd
had collected down in Trafalgar Square about the spot where the Tank
Bank stood in the spring, a crowd composed of Colonial soldiers, of
bare-headed factory girls from Charing Cross Road, of girl clerks
from the countless Government offices round about.

Without much interest I glanced over the stone coping.  Above the
heads of the thickening crowd I saw a banner.  It was white, with the
scarlet-lettered motto:

"ENGLAND MUST BE FED."


There was a group on the small raised platform beneath it, an elderly
man in a frock-coat, some ladies, and the gleam of a light smock.
Some one was speaking underneath that flag.  In the sultry midday air
I suddenly heard, fresh and clear, a girlish voice.  These were the
scraps that came to me:

"I appeal to you girls in this crowd.  Some of you are country-born
girls, like me.  I'm from Wales.  My county was a green county.  It
is now a red county--ploughed up to help carry on the war.  But must
we look at these fields full of crops and think, 'These will rot in
the ground because there will never be hands enough to carry them
in'?"

Ah!  Land Army!

I'd heard of this before, and now Trafalgar Square saw girls being
recruited as, three years ago, it saw young men being asked why they
were not in khaki.

Then the speaker's young voice rose earnestly to my listless ears:

"I have put before you the disadvantages of this life.  Long hours.
Hard work.  Poor pay.  After you get your board and lodging a
shilling a day, perhaps.  Very poor pay.  But, girls--our boys at the
Front are offering their lives for just that.  Won't you offer your
services for that--and for them?"

The voice attracted me, the Welsh voice that holds the secret of
being clear, yet soft, with the ends of its words pronounced as
crisply as by a well-trained singer.  It held me, that voice, while
the speaker touched on the urgent need of workers to fill the places
of men, who had gone from farm, field, dairy and byre.

Ah, the charming picture that she made!  A bright, sturdy flower of
girlhood set against-the parched stone-work of Town!  She wore the
Land Girl's uniform that sets off a woman's shape as no other costume
has done yet.  Under her slouch-hat her face was vividly brown and
rose-coloured, with dark eyes alight.  Her fresh, light belted smock,
with its green armlet and scarlet crown, looked cool as well as trim.

The sight of her, I thought, should bring in as many recruits as the
speech.  She looked as if she'd never dreamt of such things as
unventilated offices, typewriters that clicked mechanically all day,
nervous headaches, lives soured and blighted at twenty-two!
Enviously I glanced at her.  Suddenly--was it my imagination?--she
looked straight back at me over the heads of the crowd.  It was to me
she seemed to be speaking now.

"You are offered some good things in this new life, girls.  Good
health.  Good sleep----"

Here I smiled bitterly.  Good sleep....  I'd had a whole fortnight of
hideously broken nights.

"There's no sleep like that of the worker on the land!" declared the
recruiting land girl.

"Another thing you're offered is a good conscience with which to meet
those lads when they return from fighting for you.  Lastly--though I
don't know if it's worth mentioning, really"--here her white teeth
flashed in a merry smile across her rosy face--"you are offered a
good complexion!"

Then something else unexpected happened.  She jumped lightly down,
and it was first of all to me--me!--that she made her way.

Straight up to me she came.  She looked me full in the face, smiled
prettily, and in that clear voice that sounded home-like to me
because my home had been where she, too, came from, she said:

"I've been watching you all the time I've been speaking.  I want to
say something to you."

"You want to speak to me?" I said, surprised.

"I noticed you at once," said the Land Girl.  "You looked--well, not
very pleased with life."

Here a passer-by glanced at the contrast we made standing there:
Government office clerk and Land Girl.  She, in smock and breeches,
radiated rosy health; I, wearing my blue costume, Frenchy blouse,
flower-wreathed hat and Louis-heeled shoes, wilted in limpness and
pallor.

She said prettily:

"Are you on war-work of any kind?"

"Yes, I am.  I work at----" I gave her the rabbit-warren's real name.

Her bright face fell.

"What a pity.  We're told not to try for recruits who are engaged in
other departments.  I was going to ask you to join up for the Land
Army."

[Illustration: "_I was going to ask you to join up for the Land
Army_"]

"I!  Oh, I should be no earthly good at that sort of thing," I
assured her pettishly, I'm afraid.  "I must get back to the office."

"A pity," remarked the fair recruiter regretfully.  "Perhaps you've a
friend who's not so busy.  Would you pass these on?"

I took the leaflets she offered.

"Good-bye," she said.  Once out of sight of that energetic young
worker, I rolled her papers into a ball and tossed them into a county
council waste-paper bin.

That is, I thought I did.

My head ached so desperately that I hardly knew what I was doing by
the time I got out of the glare of Whitehall and into the gloom of
the office.

I was before Mr. Winter, the chief who disliked me as much as he
disliked open windows.  Here was my chance to let in an apology for a
breath of air.  I tugged at the window.  It was stiff.  Down it came
at last.  But the effort had been too much for me in my run-down
state; it made me feel positively sick.

Then came the last straw.

Suddenly, unexpectedly, Mr. Winter rasped out behind me:

"Can't you keep that window shut?"

I jumped violently--think of the morning I'd had.  I forgot myself.

"Don't shout at----" I began.  But all in an instant the office
became dark as night.  I threw out my hands.  Then I pitched forward
on my face, knowing no more.

I had fainted dead away.


Half an hour later I was sent home, after Mr. Winter had leapt at his
chance of telling me that I was obviously not strong enough for
war-work, and that I need not present myself at these offices any
more.  Perhaps he was scarcely justified.  Perhaps he wanted to
frighten me into an appeal.  But I didn't say a word, I was too dazed.

Sacked!

Well, after that, I thought, there was only one thing for me to do.




CHAPTER III

THE TOSS-UP

"And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss."--KIPLING.


"Elizabeth!  What should you say if I were to accept an offer of
marriage?" I demanded abruptly.

This was after I'd got back to the flat, had flung myself down on my
bed with the announcement that I'd been sacked from the
rabbit-warren, and had turned thirstily to the tea that my chum had
brought in at once.

Washed-out, I lay against the pillow, while Elizabeth did the
ministering angel in a boyish shirt, and with thick black locks
"bobbed" about her square-chinned little face.

Elizabeth is the most loyal pal who ever barked out home-truths at a
chum, waiting on her hand and foot the while ... Oh, girl-friends!
What would life be without them when men forsake us by desertion and
death, when other men overwork us and harry us, and when all men (as
it sometimes seems) misunderstand us!  Men don't believe in loyal and
lasting friendships between women.  Elizabeth, in return, never
believed much in men.

"Offer of marriage?" she retorted.  "What are you raving about?"

Between sips of tea I gave her the story of the letter that I had
taken away unopened that morning.

"Asks me to write within the week, unless it was to be good-bye for
good!" I concluded.  "What do you think of it?"

"Shell-shock," Elizabeth promptly suggested.  "Poor fellow!  Must be
quite off his head.  How long was he out at the Front, Joan?"

"How should I know?  I only know he wrote from those barracks."

"You don't know his regiment or anything?"

"Not a thing.  Not the colour of his eyes, or why he never wrote to
me before, or where he's been for the last seven years, or what
doing.  Absolutely nothing do I know about him.  Except that he wants
me to be his wife!"

My stupor of the morning had given way to a reaction of bravado; I
laughed into Elizabeth's little steady face.

"Knew you weren't serious," she said.  "I'm glad you're bucking up,
though.  It's quite a mercy that you have got the sack.  You'd have
had to go home and take things easy for a bit in any case, so----"

Here I interrupted her with more vigour than I'd felt capable of all
day.

"Go home?" I echoed, really nettled.  "D'you imagine that I'm going
home after this?  Not much!  Go home!  Go back to----"  I took a long
breath to underline the words--"to Agatha?"

Now, Agatha was my young stepmother.

Nobody could find fault with Agatha.  She was sensible, quiet,
admirably domesticated, a splendid needlewoman and parish worker, an
excellent wife to Dad, and always tactful towards his grown-up
children.  Only--well, Agatha was a person who never made a mistake
in her life.  And the people who do make headstrong, passionate,
idiotic mistakes--well, is it to that sort of person that they turn
when they're in trouble?  I ask you.

Elizabeth shook her cropped head.  She had to see it.

"What will you do, then?  Try for another job in town, I suppose?"

"Oh, I don't care what I do!" I said wearily.  "There aren't many
things I can do.  Marrying this young man is one of them, anyway.
Why shouldn't I?  All marriage is a ghastly risk.  Especially when a
girl knows she can never, never care for anybody."

It was here that Elizabeth, that good chum, took me fairly in hand.

"I'll talk now," she said.  "You listen."  And she began to talk
coolly and helpfully and like a dose of bromide, which was what I
needed at that point.

"You said there weren't many things you could do.  Home's off.
You're not rich enough to do nothing, so you must do something.  That
means you either marry for a job--lots of girls do, poor wretches--or
take one.  I suppose your precious Winter isn't too chilly to give
you a reference?"

"I daresay he's warmer now he's got that window shut!" I answered
languidly.

"Then you're left with the choice of doing a sensible thing or a
silly one," Elizabeth declared.  "You go into another Government
office, or you marry this man, who may drink or squint or have a
beard for all you know."
